pinning migration cfep-9 (#13)
conda-forge/cfep: cfep-9-migrator-file.md

# @mariusvniekerk's proposal

This is a general sketch of what I'd like migrators to be able to achieve.  
Effectively this means we can decompose all of our migrations into a small set of primitives 
that we can apply to generate a resulting desired target.

----

Given a feedstock with the following pinnings

```yaml
# Existing pins
a:
  - 1.5
b:
  - 1.2
someflag:
  - disabled
```

There are four classes of pinning we can do in general.

## 1. Simple Additive Version Migrations

<table>
<tr>
<td>

```yaml
# Existing pins
a:
  - 1.5
b:
  - 1.2
someflag:
  - disabled
```
</td>
<td> with </td>
<td>

```yaml
# migrator
__migrator: kind: version
a:
  - 1.6
b:
  - 1.1
```
</td>
<td> -> </td>
<td>

```yaml
# resulting pins
a:
  - 1.6
b:

>   - 1.2

Reviewer: Why do versions always increase? This assumption is limiting in a way that is not required.

Reviewer 2: Mostly because for migrations decreases are almost certainly an antipattern

someflag:
  - disabled
```
</td>
</tr>
</table>

These are the most common version migrations and encompass things like moving the pinnings for openssl etc.

Note that the version of `b` was NOT decreased.  This is intentional as we don't wish to downgrade accidentally.  In practice many migrators could be in flight and may affect the same version.  In this case the higher version should always 

> win.  If we want to downgrade there is a mechanism but it is purposefully clunky and bad.

Reviewer: Hmmmm. This answers my question above at some level. However I’d rather not personally be in the weeds on package versions. Changes to the global pinnings are fundamentally git file diffs.

## 2. Matrix Version Addition changes

<table>
<tr>
<td>

```yaml
# Existing pins
a:
  - 1.5
python:
  - 3.6
someflag:
  - disabled
```
</td>
<td> with </td>
<td>

```yaml
# migrator
__migrator: kind: version
python:
  - 3.6
  - 3.8a1
```
</td>
<td> -> </td>
<td>

```yaml
# resulting pins
a:
  - 1.5

> b:

Author: ```suggestion
python:
```

  - 3.6
  - 3.8a1
someflag:
  - disabled
```
</td>
</tr>
</table>

> These are things like the compiler migration and can be thought of as additions to a version.  

Author: ```suggestion
These are things like language migration and can be thought of as additions to a version.  
```

Author: (or maybe the language portion of the compiler migration)

These need substantial care when dealing with things like zip_keys.  But in general it should be

> feasible to perform for many common cases.

Reviewer: I’m concerned we are biting off more than we can chew here. The 80% solution of building automated tools for simpler migrations but avoiding those tools for complicated migrations seems prudent. In other words, for a complicated migration we want to have a human manually code the migration. My idea of the goal here is to have the automated migrations cover only the simplest cases where they can be effective and have a low chance of failure.

Reviewer 2: which is mostly why i'm pointing out zip_keys being a problem

Reviewer: I don't see how code that performs the operations above (with selectors which are not really adressed) really helps anything though. You are suggesting that we build and maintain code for basically what git can do for us in terms of diffs. We have to exclude complicated migrations in either case.

Did I miss something?

Author: I think the main issue here is that git diffs require a set order to be run in. We would like to be able to apply these diffs in any order, since more than one migration could be running at a time and we don't want to block if possible.

## 3. Name migrations

Names don't sort well and as such are a bit problematic.  However we can impose a new name by 
stating what the ordering of names are.  This allows us to effectively treat a name migration exactly the the same as
a version migration because we have an ordering that we can impose on the system.

<table>
<tr>
<td>

```yaml
# Existing pins
c_compiler:
  - toolchain_c
```
</td>
<td> with </td>
<td>

```yaml
# migrator
__migrator:
  kind: version
  ordering:
    c_compiler:
      - toolchain_c
      - gcc
c_compiler:
  - gcc
```
</td>
<td> -> </td>
<td>

```yaml
# resulting pins
c_compiler:
  - gcc
```
</td>
</tr>
</table>

## 4. Key removal

Some times we want to perform a migrator where we delete a given value and don't wish to substitute it with a new one.
A deletion migration is designed purely to remove values

<table>
<tr>
<td>

```yaml
# Existing pins
ruamel_yaml:
  - 1.40
numpy:
  - 1.14
```
</td>
<td> with </td>
<td>

```yaml
# migrator
__migrator:
  kind: deletion
ruamel_yaml:
  - 1.40
```
</td>
<td> -> </td>
<td>

```yaml
# resulting pins
numpy:
  1.14
```
</td>
</tr>
</table>

> Key removals followed by additions are a viable way to perform a migration to a lower version.  We have never done this really.

Author: My only real concern with the yaml approach is how the yaml files get bundled into migrators (eg deletion plus addition most likely should be in the same PR (ideally in the same commit))
